docs: read updates (#2)
TARAAI/Read-Write: docs/read.md

# Read

- [Basic Reads](#basic-reads)
  - [Read](#read)
  - [Partial Reads](#partial-reads)
  - [Value Reads](#value-reads)
- [Advanced Reads](#advanced-reads)
   - [Alias Reads](#alias-reads)
   - [Derived Data Reads](#derived-data-reads)
- [Query Syntax](#query-syntax)
  - [Collections](#collections)
  - [Single Document](#single-document)
  - [Collection Group](#collection-group)
  - [where](#where)
  - [Where Clauses](#where-clauses)
  - [Order By](#orderby)
  - [Limit](#limit)
  - [startAt/startAfter](#startatstartafter)
  - [endAt/endBefore](#endatendbefore)
- [Firestore Indexes](#firestore-indexes)
- [Advanced Strategies](#advanced-strategies)
  - [Rendering lists](#rendering-lists)
  - [Pagination](#pagination)
  - [Sliding Windows](#sliding-windows)
  - [useCache](#usecache)

---

## Basic Reads

**Read/Write Subscriptions**

In Read/Write subscriptions are turned on by default. Anytime useRead is
called it automatically listens for any document changes both locally and

> global and will rerender when data changes. As of v1, there is not a single

Author: Yes, our library manages data loading and updates. But the reader are all using it inside their React component. 

So the doc should be written to who the reader is. In this case it's a UI engineer wanting to know how it will affect their rendering. 

For the deep dive docs their purpose is for a library maintainer. So those show go deeper into when the data updates, where the strict vs shallow vs deep equality checks are and how they will impact the callee which is a React component and if it will do a costly dirty check.

> In Read/Write subscriptions are turned on by default. Anytime useRead is
> called it automatically listens for any document changes both locally and
> global and will rerender when data changes. As of v1, there is not a single

Author: How about this? @comlaterra 
```suggestion
In Read/Write subscriptions are turned on by default. Anytime useRead is
called it automatically listens for any document changes both locally and
globally. When the order changes, docs are added/removed from the query 
results or the contents of a document are changed, then the hook will fire 
and this will trigger the React component to rerender. As of v1, there is not a single
```

Reviewer: Yes, that's what I meant :) Thanks

fetching; only a fetch and subscribe for global changes. 

> You can minimize when rerender are triggered by selecting a 

Reviewer: Same here, as I see it, what you are minimizing is the amount of data you are listening to.

and performant.

To start let's review the challenges in Redux proper. Redux's [`createSelector`](https://redux.js.org/usage/deriving-data-selectors#createselector-overview) 
requires overly complex boilerplate. It's so easy to get wrong that the 
documentation calls out how you will probably write it wrong. It's that the API
designer's job? Should the design reduce complexity, provide flexibility/expressiveness so it's easy to so the right thing?

Read/Write is built on data-driven, composable pieces. Learning one concept is 
built upon with others. The hard work of simplification makes things easy and composable. 

The heart of computed data in Read/Write just uses a partial read. Since the 
component only pulls up the primitive data it needs a simple equality check
inside useRead ensures the component will only trigger a React render check
when data needed for the compute has changed. 

To calculating derived data just pull the needed data and calculate like normal.
```ts
const effortType = useRead<Sprint, 'effortType'>(
  {path: 'sprints', id: sprintId}, 
  'effortType'
);
const taskEfforts = useRead<Task, 'effortLevel'>(

>   {path: 'tasks', where: ['sprintId', '==', sprintId]}, 

Reviewer 2: If using a where clause shouldn't we be expecting more than one document returned?

2. Each document has a 1MB limit
3. Single indexes are automatically created.
  In general this is good. But if you have a dynamic nested field in a document
  (like `{orderItems: {'some-sku': 4.54, 'other-sku': 10.20}}`) ever key will 
  get it's own index. [@see Firestore index exemptions](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/index-overview)
4. Complex queries are pre-defined. 
  This means code can NOT dynamically mix and match different values to 
  query data. The first time you query data that's not indexed the console will
  notify you to create the index. 
5. Queries are available offline.
  Full queries work offline and in lo-fi/li-fi situations. The only limitation is 
  queries will return only the documents that were previously downloaded. 

---
## Advanced Strategies

## Rendering Lists

How should we display a list of items? The ideal is that each
React component will only rerender when the single document that it's
displaying has changed. Also if the list of order of documents changes
then only the parent component rerenders with the minimal changed. To seamlessly
enable this

```ts
// useRead sets up a global subscription for changes & 

> //   will rerender when items are added/removed but NOT if a doc's values change

Reviewer 3: I get a little confused here.

- If task name in task-294 changes, it won't be re-rendered 

- if a new task is included in Firestore, then it will re-render

correct?

Author: In this code if TASK-294 changes the `title` only the listItem for TASK-294 will be pre-rendered. This is because we use the list parent only gets an array id & path. That doesn't change so no render happens. Each item component also doesn't have any changes so only the component with the new title will pre-render.

Author: If a new task is add (or the order of the tasks is changed) then the parent will re-render. When it re-renders the key, id and path are the same for all the existing component so they will not re-render. Only the new item will be added and rendered in React.

Author: This is why the `useRead` and the `useCache` are so powerful. We can skip huge amount of React dirty checks and React renders because `useRead` and `useCache` can do a shallow equality check to skip React checks. When we only pass props to a component that are primitives then React is do a simple equality check and skip all expensive dirty checks and re-renders.

Author: @victorodgs is there a better way we can say this?

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to say we should only render a list from IDs and then useCache at a lower level for display data like title?
